---
layout: post
title:  "pro git"
date:   2018-01-25
categories: [Others]
tags: [git]
mathjax: true
---

## 1. Get Started
Three main sections of a Git Project: the Git directory, the working
directory, and the staging area.
The Git directory is where Git stores the metadata and object database for
your project.
The working directory is a single checkout of one version of the project.
The staging area is a file, generally contained in your Git directory, that
stores information about what will go into your next commit
## 2. Git Basics
The git add command takes a path name for either a file or a directory; if
it’s a directory, the command adds all the files in that directory
recursively.

git add is a multipurpose command – you use it to begin tracking
new files, to stage files, and to do other things like marking
merge-conflicted files as resolved. It may be helpful to think of it more as
"add this content to the next commit" rather than "add this file to the
project".

It’s important to note that git diff by itself doesn’t show all changes
made since your last commit – only changes that are still __unstaged__.
This can be confusing, because if you’ve staged all of your changes, git
diff will give you no output.
git diff --cached  or git diff --staged to see what you’ve staged so far.


One useful thing you may want to do is to keep the file in your working
tree but remove it from your staging area. In other words, you may want to
keep the file on your hard drive but not have Git track it anymore.

git rm --cached README

You can pass files, directories, and file-glob patterns to the git rm
command. That means you can do things such as:

git rm log/\\*.log

Note the backslash (\\) in front of the \\*. This is necessary because Git
does its own filename expansion in addition to your shell’s filename
expansion. 

### Viewing the Commit History

One really helpful filter is the -S option which takes a string and only
shows the commits that introduced a change to the code that added or removed
that string.

### Undoing Things
One of the common undos takes place when you commit too early and possibly
forget to add some files, or you mess up your commit message. 
If you want to try that commit again, you can run commit with the --amend
option:
git commit --amend

### Working with Remotes

Showing Your Remotes

git remote

Adding Remote Repositories

To add a new remote Git repository as a shortname you can reference easily,
run git remote add \[shortname\] \[url\].

Fetching and Pulling from Your Remotes

git fetch [remote-name]

It’s important to note that the git fetch command pulls the data to
your local repository – it doesn’t automatically merge it with any of your
work or modify what you’re currently working on. You have to merge it
manually into your work when you’re ready.

Pushing to Your Remotes

The command for this is simple: git push \[remote-name\] \[branch-name\].

Inspecting a Remote

If you want to see more information about a particular remote, you can use
the git remote show [remote-name] command.

Removing and Renaming Remotes

git remote rename       git remote rm

